Getting Started with Agent - Embed Project (#14338)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/getting_started/agent/_index.md

      text: 'Why should I install the Datadog Agent on my cloud instances?'
---

This guide provides an introduction to the Agent and how you can use it to pull system level metrics into the Datadog Platform. It also provides a walkthrough of an example Agent installation on an Ubuntu environment which will cover:

  - Agent Installation
  - Verifying that the Agent is running
  - Configuring Agent features
  - Troubleshooting Resources

## Overview

### About the Agent

> The Datadog Agent is software that runs on your hosts. It collects events and metrics from hosts and sends them to Datadog, where you can analyze your monitoring and performance data. It can run on your local hosts (Windows, MacOS), containerized environments (Docker, Kubernetes), on premises data centers, and supports configuration management tools (Chef, Puppet, Ansible). The Agent is able to collect 75-100 system level metrics every 15-20 seconds. With additional setup and configuration, the Agent can also report live processes, logs, and traces to the Datadog Platform. The Datadog Agent is open source and its source code is available on GitHub at [DataDog/datadog-agent][1].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Datadog Agent is software that runs on your hosts. It collects events and metrics from hosts and sends them to Datadog, where you can analyze your monitoring and performance data. It can run on your local hosts (Windows, MacOS), containerized environments (Docker, Kubernetes), and in on-premises data centers. You can install and configure it using configuration management tools (Chef, Puppet, Ansible). 

The Agent is able to collect 75 to 100 system level metrics every 15 to 20 seconds. With additional setup and configuration, the Agent can also send live processes, logs, and traces to the Datadog Platform. The Datadog Agent is open source and its source code is available on GitHub at [DataDog/datadog-agent][1].
```

### Agent overhead

> The amount of space and resources the Agent takes up depends on the configuration and what data the Agent pulls. At the onset, you can expect around 0.08% CPU used on average with a disk spalce of roughly 830MB to 880MB. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The amount of space and resources the Agent takes up depends on the configuration and what data the Agent is configured to send. At the onset, you can expect around 0.08% CPU used on average with a disk space of roughly 830MB to 880MB. 
```

> See the [Agent Overhead][2] to learn more about these benchmarks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [Agent Overhead][2] to learn more about these benchmarks.
```

### Data Collected

#### Agent metrics

> 

Reviewer: let's add a brief description of what these are, something like "The following Agent metrics are information the Agent sends to Datadog about itself, so that you can determine things like what hosts or containers have running Agents, when an Agent starts, and what version of Python it's running."

| Metric                           | Description                                                                                                          |
| -------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | **datadog.agent.python.version** | Shows a value of `1` if the Agent is reporting to Datadog. The metric is tagged with the `python_version`. |
> | **datadog.agent.running**        | Shows a value of `1` if the Agent is reporting to Datadog.                                                 |
> | **datadog.agent.started**        | A count sent with a value of `1` when the Agent starts (available in v6.12+).                                        |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `datadog.agent.python.version` | Shows a value of `1` if the Agent is reporting to Datadog. The metric is tagged with the `python_version`. |
| `datadog.agent.running`        | Shows a value of `1` if the Agent is reporting to Datadog.                                                 |
| `datadog.agent.started        | A count sent with a value of `1` when the Agent starts (available in v6.12+).                                        |
```

See the [Agent Metrics][3] integration for a full list of Agent metrics.

#### Checks

Depending on your platform, the Agent has several core checks enabled by default that collect metrics.

| Check       | Metrics       | Platforms          |
| ----------- | ------------- | ------------------ |
| CPU         | [System][4]  | All                |
| Disk        | [Disk][5]    | All                |
| IO          | [System][4]  | All                |
| Memory      | [System][4]  | All                |
| Network     | [Network][6] | All                |
| NTP         | [NTP][7]     | All                |
| Uptime      | [System][4]  | All                |
| File Handle | [System][4]  | All except Mac     |
| Load        | [System][4]  | All except Windows |
| Docker      | [Docker][8]  | Docker             |
| Winproc     | [System][4]  | Windows            |

To collect metrics from other technologies, see the [Integrations][9] page.

## Containerized Environments

> There are a few differences in the way the Agent runs in a containerized environment.

Reviewer: You haven't yet said how the Agent is configured on a host, so it's a little premature to compare how it's configured on a container. Maybe we should call this section "Differences between Agents for hosts and containers". Then this sentence would be "There are a few differences in the way the Agent runs in a containerized environment from how it runs on a host."

Author: Would this flow better if this section and the "Why Should I Install the Agent" section were moved below the walkthrough portion? So a user would see how to install and setup an Agent, and then they can see how this is different in a container environment.

> 1. The Agent configuration options are passed in with [Environment Variables][10], for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. While on a host, the Agent is configured using a YAMLS file (as you will see later in this guide), the Agent configuration options for a container's Agent are passed in with [environment variables][10], for example:
```

    - `DD_API_KEY` for the Datadog API key
    - `DD_SITE` for the Datadog site

> 2. Integrations are automatically identified through Datadog's Autodiscovery feature. See [Basic Agent Autodiscovery][11] to learn more.

Reviewer: And similarly give a nod here to how integrations work on a host setup.

See the [Docker Agent][12] or [Kubernetes][13] for a walkthrough on running the Agent in a containerized environment.

## Why Should I Install the Agent?

> The Agent needs to be installed to pull data from any one of the many Agent based Integraions. The Agent is not necessarily required to forward data to the Datadog Platform, for example, you can send Logs and Metrics through the Datadog API. However, the Agent is the recommended method to forward your data to the Datadog Platform. 

Reviewer 2: This should be "Integrations" (I'm glad I'm not the only person who types "integraions" sometimes!)

> The Agent needs to be installed to pull data from any one of the many Agent based Integraions. The Agent is not necessarily required to forward data to the Datadog Platform, for example, you can send Logs and Metrics through the Datadog API. However, the Agent is the recommended method to forward your data to the Datadog Platform. 

Reviewer: Throughout: I think we generally refer to the Agent's main function as "collecting" and "sending" data, not "pulling," so anytime you say "pull" please change it to one of those (depending on what you're talking about).

> The Agent samples host data  every 15 seconds to provide a more accurate understanding of what is happening across your environments. Additionally, it comes with over 50 default metrics to provide greater insight on system level data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Agent collects host data every 15 seconds to provide an accurate understanding of what is happening across your environments. Additionally, it comes with over 50 default metrics to provide greater insight on system level data.
```

This is a confusing (kinda inaccurate) sentence. One agent (singular) doesn't provide cross-environment information. And the agent doesn't "come with" metrics -- it does collect some system level metrics by default, though.

## Setup

### Prerequisites

1. Create a [Datadog account][14].

> 2. You will need access to your [Datadog API key][15]. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Have your [Datadog API key][15] on hand. 
```

3. Have the Datadog UI open.

> **Note** This walkthrough will be using the Ubuntu platform. See the [Basic Agent Usage][16] page for a full list of supported platforms. 

Reviewer 2: I would say "Ubuntu operating system" instead of "platform". It may also make sense to specify the version of the OS, like "Ubuntu 20.04"

Reviewer: Agreed about using "operating system", however we don't want to give the impression that this process only works on one very specific version. 

Also, colon after **Note**:

### Installation

In the Datadog UI, go to the [Agent Installation Page][17] for Ubuntu, **Integrations > Agent** 

To install the Datadog Agent on a host, use the [one line install command][18] updated with your [Datadog API key][2]:

```shell
DD_API_KEY=<DATADOG_API_KEY> DD_SITE="{{< region-param key="dd_site" >}}" bash -c "$(curl -L https://s3.amazonaws.com/dd-agent/scripts/install_script.sh)"
```

### Validation

#### Terminal Command

Run the Agent's [status command][19] to verify installation.

```shell
sudo datadog-agent status
```

> A successfull installation will return an Agent Status report that begins with Agent information like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A successful installation returns an Agent Status report that begins with Agent information like this:
```

```shell
===============
Agent (v7.36.1)
===============

  Status date: 2022-06-15 15:54:48.364 EDT / 2022-06-15 19:54:48.364 UTC (1655322888364)
  Agent start: 2022-06-15 15:54:29.85 EDT / 2022-06-15 19:54:29.85 UTC (1655322869850)
  Pid: 9801
  Go Version: go1.17.6
  Python Version: 3.8.11
  Build arch: amd64
  Agent flavor: agent
  Check Runners: 6
  Log Level: info
```

#### Events

> In the Datadog UI, go to the Events Explorer Page **Events > Explorer**. The Agent sends events to Datadog when an Agent is started or restarted. The following message will display if your Agent successfully installs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Datadog UI, go to the Events Explorer Page **Events > Explorer**. The Agent sends events to Datadog when an Agent is started or restarted. The following message displays if your Agent successfully installs:
```
We avoid using the future tense in the docs. Any time you have the word "will", see if you can rewrite it without.

```text
Datadog agent (v. 7.XX.X) started on <Hostname>
```

> #### Service Checks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Service checks
```

All headings below the H1 (the page title) should be sentence case, so only the first word (and any proper nounds) capitalized. I haven't checked throughout, but you should scan through and fix all that this applies to.

The Agent is set up to provide the following service checks:

>   - **datadog.agent.up**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `datadog.agent.up`:
```

>     Returns `OK` if the Agent is able to connect to Datadog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Returns `OK` if the Agent connects to Datadog.
```

>   - **datadog.agent.check_status**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `datadog.agent.check_status`:
```

    Returns `CRITICAL` if an Agent check is unable to send metrics to Datadog, otherwise returns `OK`.

> These checks can be used in the Datadog Platform to visualize the Agent status through Monitors and Dashboards at a quick glance. See [Service Check Overview][20] to learn more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These checks can be used in the Datadog Platform to visualize the Agent status through monitors and dashboards at a quick glance. See [Service Check Overview][20] to learn more.
```

#### Metrics

> In the Datadog UI, go to the Metrics Summary page **Metrics > Summary** and search for the metric **datadog.agent.started** or the metric **datadog.agent.running**. If these metrics are not visible right away, it may take a few minutes for the Agent to send the data to the Datadog Platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Datadog UI, go to the Metrics Summary page **Metrics > Summary** and search for the metric `datadog.agent.started` or the metric `datadog.agent.running`. If these metrics are not visible right away, it may take a few minutes for the Agent to send the data to the Datadog Platform.
```

> Click on either of the metrics and a Metric panel will open to show additional metadata about where these Metrics are pulled from and any associated tags. Since no tags were configured on this host, you should only see the default tags that Datadog assigns to the metrics including `version` and `host`. See the following section on Agent Configuration Files to learn more about how to add tags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click on either of the metrics and a Metric panel will open to show additional metadata about where these metrics are collected from and any associated tags. Because so far in this walkthrough no tags are configured on this host, you should see only the default tags that Datadog assigns to the metrics including `version` and `host`. See the following section on Agent Configuration Files to learn more about how to add tags.
```
Capitalize things that are names in the UI (for example "Metric panel") but not when they are just nouns (these metrics are collected).

> Explore other default metrics such as **ntp.offset** or **system.cpu.idle**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Explore other default metrics such as `ntp.offset` or `system.cpu.idle`.
```
Non-English, code-like words should be in monospace.

## Agent Configuration Files

> The Agent's main configuration file is `datadog.yaml`. The required parameters are your [Datadog API key][15] which is used to associate your Agent's data with your organization and the Datadog site ({{< region-param key="dd_site" code="true" >}}). See the [sample config_template.yaml][21] for all available configuration options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Agent's main configuration file is `datadog.yaml`. The required parameters are:
- your [Datadog API key][15], which is used to associate your Agent's data with your organization, and 
- the Datadog site ({{< region-param key="dd_site" code="true" >}}). 

See the [sample config_template.yaml][21] for all available configuration options.
```

You might want to mention here that there are lots of config options, and give examples of the kind of things they control.

> Once you have the Agent installed, you can adjust the Agent configuration files to take advantage of other Datadog features including Tags

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can adjust the Agent configuration files to take advantage of other Datadog features including tags.
```
Ah, here's the longer explanation i just requested :) Maybe a couple more examples of the features in the config?

#### Setting Tags through the Agent Configuration file

> 

Reviewer: This needs a paragraph to explain why a person would add tags.

> 1. Locate your Agent's [main configuration file][22]. For Ubuntu, the file locations is 
> `/etc/datadog-agent/datadog.yaml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Locate your Agent's [main configuration file][22]. For Ubuntu, the file locations is `/etc/datadog-agent/datadog.yaml`.
```

> 2. In the `datadog.yaml` file, locate the tags parameter. Host level tags can be set in the `datadog.yaml` configuration to apply tags on all metrics, traces and logs forwarded from this host.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In the `datadog.yaml` file, locate the `tags` parameter. Host level tags can be set in the `datadog.yaml` configuration to apply tags on all metrics, traces and logs forwarded from this host.
```
Monospacing the first "tags" because you want them to know they're looking for that specific word in code (and you don't want french or japanese translators to translate it).

## @env DD_TAGS - space separated list of strings - optional
## List of host tags. Attached in-app to every metric, event, log, trace, and service check emitted by this Agent.
##
## This configuration value merges with `DD_EXTRA_TAGS`, allowing some
## tags to be set in a configuration file (`tags`), and additional tags to be added
## with an environment variable (`DD_EXTRA_TAGS`).
##
## Learn more about tagging: https://docs.datadoghq.com/tagging/
#
# tags:
#   - team:infra
#   - <TAG_KEY>:<TAG_VALUE>
```

3. Uncomment the tags parameter and the provided example `team:infra` tag. 
```yaml
## @param tags  - list of key:value elements - optional	
## @env DD_TAGS - space separated list of strings - optional
## List of host tags. Attached in-app to every metric, event, log, trace, and service check emitted by this Agent.
##
## This configuration value merges with `DD_EXTRA_TAGS`, allowing some
## tags to be set in a configuration file (`tags`), and additional tags to be added
## with an environment variable (`DD_EXTRA_TAGS`).
##
## Learn more about tagging: https://docs.datadoghq.com/tagging/
#
tags:
   - team:infra
#   - <TAG_KEY>:<TAG_VALUE>
```

> 

Reviewer: You could have them add their own personal tags here, too, so they get the idea that things they add show up in the product later. Just uncommenting something provided is less impactful.

4. Restart the Agent by running the Agent's [restart command][23]. The Ubuntu restart command:

```shell
sudo service datadog-agent restart
```

> 5. After a few minutes, go to the Metrics Summary page again **Metrics > Summary**, and click on the metric **datadog.agent.started**. In additional to the default `host` and `version` tags, you can also see the `team` tag. Go to the Events Explorer page **Events > Explorer** and find the `team` tag displayed with the latest Agent Event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. After a few minutes, go to the Metrics Summary page again **Metrics > Summary**, and click on the metric `datadog.agent.started`. In addition to the default `host` and `version` tags, you can also see the `team` tag and whatever personal tags you added. 

6. Go to the Events Explorer page **Events > Explorer** and find the custom tags displayed with the latest Agent Event.
```
Each step should contain only one thing to do.

#### Metrics

In the Datadog UI, go to the Metrics Summary page **Metrics > Summary** and search for the metric `datadog.agent.started` or the metric `datadog.agent.running`. If these metrics are not visible right away, it may take a few minutes for the Agent to send the data to the Datadog Platform.

Click on either of the metrics and a Metric panel opens up. This panel shows additional metadata about where these metrics are collected from and any associated tags. Because so far in this walkthrough no tags are configured on this host, you should see only the default tags that Datadog assigns to the metrics including `version` and `host`. See the following section on Agent Configuration Files to learn more about how to add tags.

Explore other default metrics such as `ntp.offset` or `system.cpu.idle`.

## Agent configuration files

The Agent's main configuration file is `datadog.yaml`. The required parameters are:
- your [Datadog API key][16], which is used to associate your Agent's data with your organization, and 
- the Datadog site ({{< region-param key="dd_site" code="true" >}}). 

> See the [sample config_template.yaml][22] for all available configuration options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the [sample `config_template.yaml` file][22] for all available configuration options.
```

You can adjust the Agent configuration files to take advantage of other Datadog features including tags.

#### Setting tags through the Agent configuration file

Tags add an additional layer of metadata to your metrics and events. This allows you to scope and compare your data in Dataodg visualizations. When data is sent to Datadog from multiple hosts, tagging this information allows you to scope down to the data you are most interested in visualising. 

> For example, let's say you have data that is collected from different teams and you are only interested in seeing the metrics from team alpha, tagging those specific hosts with either the `team:alpha` or `team:bravo` tag gives you the ability to filter down to the metrics that are tagged with `teamp:alpha`. See [Getting Started with Tags][23] to learn more about tagging your data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, let's say you have data that is collected from different teams and you are only interested in seeing the metrics from team alpha, tagging those specific hosts with either the `team:alpha` or `team:bravo` tag gives you the ability to filter down to the metrics that are tagged with `team:alpha`. See [Getting Started with Tags][23] to learn more about tagging your data.
```

## tags to be set in a configuration file (`tags`), and additional tags to be added
## with an environment variable (`DD_EXTRA_TAGS`).
##
## Learn more about tagging: https://docs.datadoghq.com/tagging/
#
# tags:
#   - team:infra
#   - <TAG_KEY>:<TAG_VALUE>
```

3. Uncomment the tags parameter and the provided example `team:infra` tag. You can also add your own custom tag, for example `test:agent_walkthrough`. 
```yaml
## @param tags  - list of key:value elements - optional	
## @env DD_TAGS - space separated list of strings - optional
## List of host tags. Attached in-app to every metric, event, log, trace, and service check emitted by this Agent.
##
## This configuration value merges with `DD_EXTRA_TAGS`, allowing some
## tags to be set in a configuration file (`tags`), and additional tags to be added
## with an environment variable (`DD_EXTRA_TAGS`).
##
## Learn more about tagging: https://docs.datadoghq.com/tagging/
#
tags:
   - team:infra
   - test:agent_walkthrough
```

4. Restart the Agent by running the Agent’s [restart command][25]. The Ubuntu restart command:

```shell
sudo service datadog-agent restart
```

> 5. After a few minutes, go to the Metrics Summary page again **Metrics > Summary**, and click on the metric `datadog.agent.started`. In addition to the default `host` and `version` tags, you can also see the `team` tag and whatever personal tags you added. You can also filter metrics by the `Tag` field at the top of the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. After a few minutes, go to **Metrics > Summary** again, and click on the metric `datadog.agent.started`. In addition to the default `host` and `version` tags, you can also see the `team` tag and whatever personal tags you added. You can also filter metrics by the `Tag` field at the top of the page.
```

> 6. Go to the Events Explorer page **Events > Explorer** and find the custom tags displayed with the latest Agent Event. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Go to **Events > Explorer** and find the custom tags displayed with the latest Agent Event. 
```

#### Other configuration options

> Logs, traces, and processes can be enabled through the Agent configuration file. These are not features that are enabled by default. For example, in the configuration file, notice that for the `logs_enabled` parameter, it is set to false.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The collection of logs, traces, and processes data can be enabled through the Agent configuration file. These are not features that are enabled by default. For example, in the configuration file, notice that for the `logs_enabled` parameter, it is set to false.
```

```yaml
##################################
## Log collection Configuration ##
##################################

## @param logs_enabled - boolean - optional - default: false
## @env DD_LOGS_ENABLED - boolean - optional - default: false
## Enable Datadog Agent log collection by setting logs_enabled to true.
#
# logs_enabled: false
```

Other Datadog features that can be configured through the Agent configuration file include:
- Enabling OTLP Trace Ingestion
- Customizing log collection to filter or scrub sensitive data
- Setting trace sample rates 

> Without going into too much detail on all the individual features, be aware that throughout your setup, when the documentation refers to the `datadog.yaml` file or the Agent configuration file, this is the file you need to configure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Throughout your setup, when the documentation refers to the `datadog.yaml` file or the Agent configuration file, this is the file you need to configure.
```
